Charging Bench @VERSION@

Introducing the completely new and improved Industrial Craft 2 Charging Bench!
-------------------

This mod adds a Charging Bench to Industrial Craft 2 which allows you to charge up to 12
items simultaneously! The Charging Bench comes in three tiers with each tier capable of
charging all items at its tier level and below, but not above. If you want to charge your
Quantum armor you'll need to craft a HV version. :)

LV Charging Bench
- The low voltage charging bench has a maximum input energy of 32 EU/t, and a base energy
  storage of 40,000 EU.

- Crafting recipe:
  1 Batbox
  3 Insulated Copper Cable
  1 Electronic Circuit
  4 Wooden Planks

MV Charging Bench
- The medium voltage charging bench has a maximum input energy of 128 EU/t, and a base energy
  storage of 600,000 EU.

- Crafting recipe:
  1 MFE
  3 2x Insulated Gold Cable
  1 Electronic Circuit
  4 Wooden Planks

HV Charging Bench
- The high voltage charging bench has a maximum input energy of 512 EU/t, and a base energy
  storage of 10,000,000 EU.

- Crafting recipe:
  1 MFSU
  3 4x Insulated HV (Iron) Cable
  1 Electronic Circuit
  4 Wooden Planks

Features common to all Charging Benches
-------------------

Due to advances in over-current circuit protection designs, a Charging Bench will not
explode if exposed to higher than acceptable current but simply pop off onto the ground in a
safe manner, ejecting any items it contained.

A charging bench will automatically direct valid electrical items shift-clicked from your
inventory into the charging area if there is space free. Excess will be placed into the input
slot. Once an item is done charging, it will be automatically moved to the output slot, if
there is space, and another item from the input slot will be added to the main charging area.
In this way, you can shift-click a full stack of RE-Batteries into the Charging Bench, and it
will automatically unstack and charge them. You can quickly and easily collect all of them by
shift-clicking repeatedly on the output slot.

While using a charging bench, you will have easy access to your equipped armor slots. If you
are wearing electrical armor, you can shift-click it directly from your armor slots into the
bench. When it's done charging, simply shift-click it from the output slot (or the charging
area, if you've let some other item loiter in the output slot) and it will automatically equip
the armor in the correct location. It doesn't get much easier than that!

And we're not done yet with the awesome features of this mod! Each charging bench now includes
a pair of indicators visible right on the outside of the bench. The storage meter lets you see
just how much power is available for charging up your items, and the charging light lets you
know if those energy-hungry items are done charging without even opening the GUI. You can toss
in your quantum armor, lapotron crystals, mining laser, etc, and walk away, and with merely a
glance across the room, you'll know when they're ready to be picked up! Even the battery slot
is wired up, so that if you're filling a remote bench using items, you'll know when it's time
to swap out the battery without having to stand around waiting for it to discharge completely.


Available upgrades!
-------------------
All three tiers of the Charging Bench accept the standard array of upgrades, with each having
a very specific effect.

- The transformer upgrade will allow the lower tier benches to accept higher input energy,
  including energy crystals, lappacks, and lapotrons in the power input slot.

- The energy storage upgrade will increase the maximum energy storage of the device. The LV
  bench now gains 10,000 EU per upgrade, the same amount the battery used to craft the upgrade
  would be able to store. The MV bench gains 60,000 EU or 10% of its base storage capacity for
  each upgrade installed. And the HV bench gains a whopping 500,000 EU capacity per upgrade!

- The overclocker upgrade lets you push your Charging Bench to the limit. By using quantum
  tunneling technology, the Charging Bench is able to carefully manage the voltage and current
  levels used to charge items and allow items to safely exceed their normal charge rates. This
  unfortunately has the same drawback that always accompanies the use of overclockers: The
  amount of power consumed increases even as the time required to charge an item decreases.
  Specifically, each upgrade increases the amount of energy transferred to an item per tick by
  30% and the amount of energy drained from the bench's internal storage by 50%, growing
  exponentially with every overclocker added. Since it's hard to do that kind of math in your
  head, here's an example: Five overclockers approximately doubles the energy used to charge
  any given item, but the time required to charge it is reduced by nearly 75%!

  For those interested, the formulas for some useful values are:
    Speed:           S = (1.3^x)
    Time required:   T = 1/S
    Energy consumed: E = (1.5^x)/S
  where x is the number of overclockers. (Just multiply the normal values by S, T, or E.)

There's more!!
-------------------
The Charging Bench's input, output and power slots are exposed to pipes, tubes, and other
devices. Input is on top, output is on bottom and the power slot is from all sides. While the
GUI restricts items placed into each of the slots to appropriate types there is no such
restriction for pipe/tube access. It is up to the player to design their systems so that the
wrong types of items don't get tossed onto the bench. But not to worry, there are no negative
consequences to inserting incorrect items, aside from temporarily clogging up the slot; the
bench simply will not do anything with items that it can't process.

Valid electrical items placed into the charging bench via tubes will automatically be moved
from the input slot to an available charging slot, then moved to the output slot once fully
charged. In this way, you can easily automate recharging of items!

Battery Stations
-------------------
Sure, a charging bench lets you fill up a lot of items at the same time with ease, but what
if you want to do the opposite and drain power from a lot of items? That's what the brand new
Battery Station allows you to do!

The battery station comes in the same three tiers as the charging bench, but where the bench
is crafted with an energy storage unit, the battery station requires a transformer instead.

LV Battery Station
- The low voltage battery station outputs energy in 32 EU packets, and can drain RE-batteries
  and other tier 1 power source items like the batpack.

- Crafting recipe:
  1 LV-Transformer
  3 Insulated Copper Cable
  1 Electronic Circuit
  4 Wooden Planks

MV Battery Station
- The medium voltage battery station outputs energy in 128 EU packets, and can drain energy
  crystals and other tier 2 power source items like the lappack, plus tier 1 power sources.

- Crafting recipe:
  1 MV-Transformer
  3 2x Insulated Gold Cable
  1 Electronic Circuit
  4 Wooden Planks

HV Battery Station
- The high voltage battery station outputs energy in 512 EU packets, and can drain lapotron
  crystals and other tier 3 power source items, as well as all lower tier power sources.

- Crafting recipe:
  1 HV-Transformer
  3 4x Insulated HV (Iron) Cable
  1 Electronic Circuit
  4 Wooden Planks

Features of the Battery Station
-------------------

Each battery station will output one packet of energy every tick, if it's able to drain enough
EU from the items in its inventory. Remember that different energy storage items have different
transfer rates, so a single battery in a HV Battery Station will not allow it to provide power
every tick. It will take multiple ticks for the station to drain sufficient EU from one battery
into its buffer.

To avoid potential problems with excessive energy loss over cabling, a battery station will
never transmit a packet of EU less than its rated output. Instead it carries over the buffered
EU from one tick to the next until it has enough EU stored to output a full packet.

A battery station can drain multiple items at once, if it doesn't get enough energy from the
first item to be able to emit EU (but it will only drain the minimum number of items needed for
it to be able to send one packet per tick). This allows a MV (or HV) battery station to run at
maximum efficiency even if supplied only with charged RE-batteries (and/or energy crystals)
instead of the more expensive lapotron crystals.

The battery station supports automation features much like the charging bench! It will move
full batteries, crystals, or other storage devices from its input slot to its discharging area,
and empty items to its output slot. When an item is removed from the discharging area the other
items present will be advanced automatically, so that newly added items will not 'cut in line'.
That is to say, the battery station operates in a FIFO (First-In, First-Out) manner, as long as
you don't rearrange items within its inventory manually, of course. ;) Like the charging bench,
you can use pipes, tubes, machines, or other methods to automatically add and remove electrical
items capable of being used as a power source. In concert with a charging bench, you can even
create systems to automatically transport EU from one location to another, storing it in items
to avoid the inefficiency and material expense of long cable runs.

The input slot is accessed from the top or bottom of a battery station, and the output slot is
accessed from any side. Note that this layout is different from the charging bench, because the
battery station only has two slots that need to be accessible. Cabling to accept the EU output
from the battery station may be attached to any face (top, bottom, or sides), or the station
may be placed directly adjacent to the machines you want it to power.

Finally, the battery station has two more features similar to those of the charging bench. One
is an activity indicator light, which will be lit while it is draining items or sending out EU.
The other is that a redstone signal will deactivate the battery station, preventing it from
performing those actions at all.


Emitters? What's this?
-------------------
Originally created for testing purposes, we have added these Emitter blocks to the creative
inventory as a bonus for people playing in creative mode or wanting to test electrical builds
without having to constantly spawn lapotron crystals and MFSUs.

There are four versions available. They have no crafting recipes, and must be acquired from
the creative inventory or via tools like NEI.

LV Emitter
-  Emits LV current (32 EU/t) when powered by redstone

MV Emitter
-  Emits MV current (128 EU/t) when powered by redstone

HV Emitter
-  Emits HV current (512 EU/t) when powered by redstone

EV Emitter
-  Emits EV current (2048 EU/t) when powered by redstone


Credits
-------------------
Original idea by Drashian
Original Charging Bench graphics by Starlight
Emitter graphics by Pantheis
Code: Pantheis and Tallinu
